
[1] Weather factors, soil microbiome, and bacteria-fungi interactions as drivers of the epiphytic phyllosphere communities of romaine lettuce.
Year: 2023
Authors: M. Brandl, M. Mammel, Ivan Simko, Taylor K S Richter, Solomon T. Gebru
Citations: 23
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1d798a9840786564cd76f53ebf92c83a26005832
Abstract: Lettuce is associated with seasonal outbreaks of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) infections. Little is known about how various biotic and abiotic factors affect the lettuce microbiome, which in turn impacts STEC colonization. We characterized the lettuce phyllosphere and surface soil bacterial, fungal, and oomycete communities at harvest in late-spring and -fall in California using metagenomics. Harvest season and field type, but not cultivar, significantly influenced the microbiome composition of leaves and surface soil near plants. Phyllosphere and soil microbiome compositions were correlated with specific weather factors. The relative abundance of Enterobacteriaceae, but not E. coli, was enriched on leaves (5.2%) compared t

[2] Revealing the hidden world of soil microbes: Metagenomic insights into plant, bacteria, and fungi interactions for sustainable agriculture and ecosystem restoration.
Year: 2024
Authors: M. Jagadesh, Munmun Dash, A. Kumari, Santosh Kumar Singh, K. Verma
Citations: 59
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bef531e148192fce5f047c071646deff6b4aa97d
Abstract: The future of agriculture is questionable under the current climate change scenario. Climate change and climate-related calamities directly influence biotic and abiotic factors that control agroecosystems, endangering the safety of the world's food supply. The intricate interactions between soil microorganisms, including plants, bacteria, and fungi, play a pivotal role in promoting sustainable agriculture and ecosystem restoration. Soil microbes play a major part in nutrient cycling, including soil organic carbon (SOC), and play a pivotal function in the emission and depletion of greenhouse gases, including CH4, CO2, and N2O, which can impact the climate. At this juncture, developing a triumphant metagenomics approach has greatly increased 

[3] Impacts of Soil Microbiome Variations on Root Colonization by Fungi and Bacteria and on the Metabolome of Populus tremula × alba
Year: 2020
Authors: L. Mangeot-Peter, T. Tschaplinski, N. Engle, C. Veneault-Fourrey, Francis Martin
Citations: 39
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f6d4c598ae2548cfdd8be8e9bd94a2078d8e9ee2
Abstract: Trees depend on beneficial interactions between roots and soil microbes for their nutrition and protection against stresses. The soil microbiome provides the main reservoir of microbes for root colonization and is subject to natural variations that can affect its composition. It is not clear whether the tree’s root system is able to buffer the natural variations occurring in the soil microbiome to capture a stable and effective microbiome or whether these variations affect its microbiome to impact its physiology. To address this question, we planted cuttings of Gray Poplar (Populus tremula × alba clone 717-1B4) in natural soil taken from a poplar stand under the same tree over two consecutive years and grew them in a greenhouse. We analyzed

[4] Soil Microbiome: Diversity, Benefits and Interactions with Plants
Year: 2023
Authors: Poonam Chauhan, Neha Sharma, A. Tapwal, Ajay Kumar, G. Verma
Citations: 139
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7a2c85f32608660fa11c19409496bc85c8c423dd
Abstract: Plant roots aid the growth and functions of several kinds of microorganisms such as plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria, mycorrhizal fungi, endophytic bacteria, actinomycetes, nematodes, protozoans which may impart significant impacts on plant health and growth. Plant soil–microbe interaction is an intricate, continuous, and dynamic process that occurs in a distinct zone known as the rhizosphere. Plants interact with these soil microbes in a variety of ways, including competitive, exploitative, neutral, commensal, and symbiotic relationships. Both plant and soil types were found to have an impact on the community diversity and structure of the rhizosphere, or vice versa. The diversity of microorganisms in soil is thought to be essential fo

[5] Mechanistic insights into rhizosphere microbiome assembly in Pinus tabuliformis: The role of cross-kingdom interactions and soil salinity gradients.
Year: 2025
Authors: Yilin Luo, Haiyun Ding, X. Mao, Zhixin Kang, Boda Li
Citations: 2
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/33e16be6fc92e21a7451e9721ada0071e8bec89d
Abstract: Soil salinization caused by desertification and drought severely limits agricultural and forestry development. The rhizosphere core microbiome plays a vital role in helping host plants cope with environmental stress. However, in saline-alkali soils, it remains unclear how bacterial and fungal communities in the rhizosphere of Pinus tabuliformis interact and collectively respond to environmental factors to influence the plant. This study aims to identify the composition and functional potential of the core bacterial and fungal microbiota in the rhizosphere of P. tabuliformis in saline environments, as well as their interactions with environmental factors, thus providing a theoretical basis for utilizing core rhizosphere microbial resources. 

[6] Soil microbiome dynamics and their role in sustainable agriculture
Year: 2025
Authors: Madhulika, Chahat Kaundal, Buddhisatya Dowarah, Perul Bisen, Subhajit Banerjee
Citations: 0
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d5254681c1c880cdd977f07e40e02936f8f48ad4
Abstract: The soil microbiome, comprising bacteria, fungi, archaea, viruses, and protozoa, plays a pivotal role in maintaining soil health, nutrient cycling, and plant productivity. With increasing global food demand and environmental degradation, understanding soil microbiome dynamics is essential for sustainable agricultural practices. This review explores the composition, functions, and interactions of soil microbial communities, emphasizing their role in nutrient cycling, disease suppression, and plant growth promotion. Recent advances in metagenomics, transcriptomics, and bioinformatics have enhanced our understanding of microbial diversity and functionality. Additionally, we discuss how agricultural practices such as crop rotation, organic amen

[7] Multitrophic interactions in the rhizosphere microbiome of wheat: from bacteria and fungi to protists.
Year: 2020
Authors: Maike Rossmann, J. Pérez-Jaramillo, V. N. Kavamura, J. Chiaramonte, K. Dumack
Citations: 92
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/42d03d0b39981b892d93906ab599f2fb05e02344
Abstract: Plants modulate the soil microbiota by root exudation assembling a complex rhizosphere microbiome with organisms spanning different trophic levels. Here, we assessed the diversity of bacterial, fungal and cercozoan communities in landraces and modern varieties of wheat. The dominant taxa within each group were the bacterial phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Acidobacteria; the fungi phyla Ascomycota, Chytridiomycota and Basidiomycota; and the Cercozoa classes Sarcomonadea, Thecofilosea and Imbricatea. We showed that microbial networks of the wheat landraces formed a more intricate network topology than that of modern wheat cultivars, suggesting that breeding selection resulted in a reduced ability to recruit specific microbes in the r

[8] Plant–soil–microbiome interactions: mechanisms, advances, and challenges in sustainable agriculture and healthy agroecosystems
Year: 2026
Authors: Jacek Panek, A. Gryta, Wiktoria Maj, Mateusz Mącik, K. Oszust
Citations: 3
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f32726bb0fe836172573f85b85f975b4b248767c
Abstract: The focus of this article is to summarize current knowledge of plant-associated microbiomes, which play a key role in plant health and in maintaining soil quality. Such microbiomes, comprising bacteria, fungi, archaea, algae, nematodes, and protists, perform various functions, including nutrient transformation, pathogen protection, and stress mitigation. Microbial communities are commonly used as an indicator of ecosystem health. Soil microbiome diversity depends on environmental factors (including biotic and abiotic stresses), which can alter microbial composition, thereby modifying microbial interactions and plant resilience. Biofertilizers, biopreparations, and microbial inoculants or consortia have been utilized in agriculture to enhanc
