
[1] PhyMapNet: A Phylogeny-Guided Bayesian Framework for Reliable Microbiome Network Inference
Year: 2026
Authors: M. Shahdoust, R. Aghdam, Golnaz Taheri
Citations: 0
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5d991573d673686dc1a9ae51d17ace7fdf95f921
Abstract: 

[2] Mapping the microbial interactome: Statistical and experimental approaches for microbiome network inference
Year: 2019
Authors: Anders B. Dohlman, Xiling Shen
Citations: 44
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bbcc50de5aa45fb644dafb7a8a9bb8df352204a2
Abstract: Advances in high-throughput sequencing have ushered in a new era of research into the gut microbiome and its role in human health and disease. However, due to the unique characteristics of microbiome survey data, their use for the detection of ecological interaction networks remains a considerable challenge, and a field of active methodological development. In this review, we discuss the landscape of existing statistical and experimental methods for detecting and characterizing microbial interactions, as well as the role that host and environmental metabolic signals play in mediating the behavior of these networks. Numerous statistical tools for microbiome network inference have been developed. Yet due to tool-specific biases, the networks 

[3] Deep learning in microbiome analysis: a comprehensive review of neural network models
Year: 2025
Authors: Piotr Przymus, Krzysztof Rykaczewski, A. Martín-Segura, J. Truu, E. Carrillo de Santa Pau
Citations: 40
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/62af01f37ab12b2a3b80c3914ce4cf82a8aa2d96
Abstract: Microbiome research, the study of microbial communities in diverse environments, has seen significant advances due to the integration of deep learning (DL) methods. These computational techniques have become essential for addressing the inherent complexity and high-dimensionality of microbiome data, which consist of different types of omics datasets. Deep learning algorithms have shown remarkable capabilities in pattern recognition, feature extraction, and predictive modeling, enabling researchers to uncover hidden relationships within microbial ecosystems. By automating the detection of functional genes, microbial interactions, and host-microbiome dynamics, DL methods offer unprecedented precision in understanding microbiome composition an

[4] Microbial network inference for longitudinal microbiome studies with LUPINE
Year: 2024
Authors: S. Kodikara, Kim-Anh Lê Cao
Citations: 8
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8c51195f87099ec3eb027aaebd45a81e820a0fd5
Abstract: The microbiome is a complex ecosystem of interdependent taxa that has traditionally been studied through cross-sectional studies. However, longitudinal microbiome studies are becoming increasingly popular. These studies enable researchers to infer taxa associations towards the understanding of coexistence, competition, and collaboration between microbes across time. Traditional metrics for association analysis, such as correlation, are limited due to the data characteristics of microbiome data (sparse, compositional, multivariate). Several network inference methods have been proposed, but have been largely unexplored in a longitudinal setting. We introduce LUPINE (LongitUdinal modelling with Partial least squares regression for NEtwork infe

[5] Statistical computation methods for microbiome compositional data network inference
Year: 2021
Authors: Liang Chen, Qiuyan He, Huina Wan, Shun He, Min Deng
Citations: 1
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c17bdee4924804018bfc50358b38bf8447247ab5
Abstract: Microbes can affect processes from food production to human health. Such microbes are not isolated, but rather interact with each other and establish connections with their living environments. Understanding these interactions is essential to an understanding of the organization and complex interplay of microbial communities, as well as the structure and dynamics of various ecosystems. A common and essential approach toward this objective involves the inference of microbiome interaction networks. Although network inference methods in other fields have been studied before, applying these methods to estimate microbiome associations based on compositional data will not yield valid results. On the one hand, features of microbiome data such as c

[6] Impact of Gut Microbiome Modulation on Uremic Toxin Reduction in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis
Year: 2025
Authors: R. Cedillo-Flores, M. A. Cuevas-Budhart, Iván Cavero-Redondo, M. Kappes, M. Ávila-Díaz
Citations: 24
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9eda3f5250e45e6cc39db8dd1af1ee5159588e4b
Abstract: Background/Objectives: Chronic kidney disease is associated with increased intestinal barrier permeability, leading to heightened inflammation and oxidative stress. These changes contribute to complications such as cardiovascular disease, anemia, altered mineral metabolism, and CKD progression. Interventions using prebiotics, probiotics, and synbiotics may mitigate dysbiosis and improve intestinal barrier function, Under this premise, the objective of this network meta-analysis was to evaluate the effect of probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics in reducing uremic toxins produced by the gut microbiota in CKD patients. Methods: A systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) was performed in the following d

[7] Statistical Methods for Microbiome Compositional Data Network Inference: A Survey
Year: 2022
Authors: Liang Chen, Hui Wan, Qiuyan He, Shun He, Min Deng
Citations: 6
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/16dace74be97b3b99648935b188d82c30c8593e4
Abstract: Microbes can be found almost everywhere in the world. They are not isolated, but rather interact with each other and establish connections with their living environments. Studying these interactions is essential to an understanding of the organization and complex interplay of microbial communities, as well as the structure and dynamics of various ecosystems. A widely used approach toward this objective involves the inference of microbiome interaction networks. However, owing to the compositional, high-dimensional, sparse, and heterogeneous nature of observed microbial data, applying network inference methods to estimate their associations is challenging. In addition, external environmental interference and biological concerns also make it m

[8] Investigating the role of gut microbiome in the association between ambient air pollution and type-2 diabetes mellitus: a causal inference approach using review of evidence to date
Year: 2024
Authors: S. Mandal, Steena Kuriakose, K. Shridhar
Citations: 0
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d7646521f76e197c9ff26a99264edfea29572c0b
Abstract: Pollutants in ambient air have been linked with type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in low as well as high pollution scenarios. Mechanisms of action include disruption of endothelial function, imbalance in the autonomic nervous system and direct translocation. Although reductions in exposure to ambient air pollution (AP) could translate to meaningful clinical and public health benefits, policy changes targeting AP are usually at the population level, multisectoral, and time consuming. The human gut microbiome (GM) is an ecosystem within individuals which has been linked with health in both beneficial and detrimental ways. During the last decade, mechanistic and epidemiological research on GM suggests altered microbial diversity and differential
